today we are going to give this
transmission the 5l 40 e transmission
model and it's usually fitted in the BMW
318 or Range Rover vogue or spot now
this via this transmission is
manufactured by General Motors and more
often denote the usual defects that
occur in this transmission the forward
and the intermediate clutch that happens
after a long period of time of driving
now the forward clutches here the
damaged one now these are one-sided a
friction flips this transmission only
takes one sided friction plates we have
the forward clutch and the intermediate
clutches here sometimes even other
sections may be damaged but this is the
most common area that gets damaged we
have also the filter whenever this
transmission is rebuilt it's very
necessary to replace the filter but in
our case when we do a rebel we don't
just replace the clutches and the filter
only we try to go the extra mile to
replace all that is required to get the
transmission to operate properly when it
is out of our workshop we do
replace all the soft parts this is a
nova whole kit a simple of a whole kit
it has got the sealing rings the oil
seals and the gaskets we also replace
the fish shops these are little a is a
molded piston the reverse and direct
clutch this is a new one we have also
the overdrive clutch piston which we
replace replace also the intermediate
clutch piston
and also the direct clutch piston and
the second clutch piston it is useful to
understand that whenever they clutch or
the friction place to get back the
pistons also get affected because of the
amount of heat generated these are the
new clutches that we put in here are the
forward clutches and the combination of
direct clutches and all that will
replace all that new then on top of that
we put in a new filter
but above all you make sure that we also
do something to the valve body because
the operation of the gearbox is mainly
based on the balcony this is a valve
body for this transmission when we are
through with it
we'll make sure that we put in a rebuilt
valve body the rebuild valve body is as
good as a new valve body but it's better
in the sense that it is cheaper
and more pocket-friendly after we are
done we also make sure that we flush the
entire cooling system of that for the
transmission from the car attached at
certain times we may also add on an
inline magnetic filter that removes most
of the debris that is generated when the
transmission is in operation now this is
the casing for the gearbox for the 5l
for TE the transmission it is 5l because
it is a 5-speed gearbox amongst the
gearbox is made by General Motors we
also have the 4l for hell that is for
the four-speed these are high
performance gearbox and that is why it
uses one-sided friction plates
the one-sided fictions place are meant
to dissipate the heat generated when the
transmission is in operation
these are speed senses
more from the note is not necessary to
replace the speed sensors but when we do
the overhaul we clean them and test them
and make sure that the resistance is
within the specified
we also test solenoids and where
necessary we replace them but now that
is done we'll put the transmission the
shared of operating to the best of its
ability